---
title: "Prison entrepreneurship training and recidivism"
collection: publications
category: workingpapers
permalink: /publication/Guler-et-al-WP
excerpt: "Formerly incarcerated individuals face significant economic and social challenges upon release, with more than half returning to prison within three years. We integrate studies on entrepreneurship training with those that examine the potential of entrepreneurship to overcome labor market discrimination, and investigate whether entrepreneurship training can help reduce recidivism. First, using proprietary data from the Texas PEP program, we compare recidivism outcomes for individuals who attended the program with those who were selected to attend, but could not, due to parole release. Second, we utilize survey data from program graduates to examine the relationship between entrepreneurial entry and recidivism, conditional on having completed the program. Third, we discuss our analysis of qualitative interviews with program graduates and directors. We find significantly lower recidivism rates for individuals who attended the program, and among attendees, significantly lower recidivism rates for those who entered entrepreneurship. Interviews suggest three roles of entrepreneurship in training: vision, focused development, and control. Our findings point to the potential role of entrepreneurship training in settings that involve disadvantaged populations such as justice-impacted individuals."
date: 2026-07-01
venue: 'Management Science'
slidesurl: 
paperurl: 'https://timothyott.github.io/file/Guler-et-al-WP.pdf'
bibtexurl: 
citation: 'Guler, I., R. Hill & T. Ott. “Prison entrepreneurship training and recidivism.” Revise and resubmit (first round) at Management Science. (36 pages)'
---
Formerly incarcerated individuals face significant economic and social challenges upon release, with more than half returning to prison within three years. We integrate studies on entrepreneurship training with those that examine the potential of entrepreneurship to overcome labor market discrimination, and investigate whether entrepreneurship training can help reduce recidivism. First, using proprietary data from the Texas PEP program, we compare recidivism outcomes for individuals who attended the program with those who were selected to attend, but could not, due to parole release. Second, we utilize survey data from program graduates to examine the relationship between entrepreneurial entry and recidivism, conditional on having completed the program. Third, we discuss our analysis of qualitative interviews with program graduates and directors. We find significantly lower recidivism rates for individuals who attended the program, and among attendees, significantly lower recidivism rates for those who entered entrepreneurship. Interviews suggest three roles of entrepreneurship in training: vision, focused development, and control. Our findings point to the potential role of entrepreneurship training in settings that involve disadvantaged populations such as justice-impacted individuals.
