---
title: "Putting entrepreneurial theories into action: Evidence from a matched study of three solar ventures"
collection: publications
category: workingpapers
permalink: /publication/Hannah-et-al-WP
excerpt: "The emerging theory-based view depicts entrepreneurs as sophisticated thinkers who form strategies based on rich causal theories. Existing research demonstrates the value of training entrepreneurs to articulate theories and use experiments prior to launch. Yet, entrepreneurship is emergent and adaptive, and we know less about how entrepreneurs translate their theories into action after launch. We address this gap through a longitudinal study of three matched ventures in the U.S. solar industry from 2007-2016. Our inducted model illuminates how theories are enacted – i.e., translated into action and then updated (or not) over time. We contribute by offering a novel empirical operationalization of theories, unpacking a surprising asymmetry in how theories are updated, and highlighting the role of theories in surfacing and justifying novel opportunities over time."
date: 2026-07-01
venue: 'Strategic Management Journal'
slidesurl: 
paperurl: 'https://timothyott.github.io/file/Hannah-et-al-WP.pdf'
bibtexurl: 
citation: 'Hannah, D., A. Marquez & T. Ott. “Putting entrepreneurial theories into action: Evidence from a matched study of three solar ventures.” Revise and resubmit (second round) at Strategic Management Journal. (38 pages)'
---
The emerging theory-based view depicts entrepreneurs as sophisticated thinkers who form strategies based on rich causal theories. Existing research demonstrates the value of training entrepreneurs to articulate theories and use experiments prior to launch. Yet, entrepreneurship is emergent and adaptive, and we know less about how entrepreneurs translate their theories into action after launch. We address this gap through a longitudinal study of three matched ventures in the U.S. solar industry from 2007-2016. Our inducted model illuminates how theories are enacted – i.e., translated into action and then updated (or not) over time. We contribute by offering a novel empirical operationalization of theories, unpacking a surprising asymmetry in how theories are updated, and highlighting the role of theories in surfacing and justifying novel opportunities over time.
