---
title: "Beyond the Chicken and Egg: How entrepreneurs prepare to jumpstart network effects to scale up platforms"
collection: publications
category: workingpapers
permalink: /publication/Ott-Ozcan-WP
excerpt: "Scaling is a critical challenge in entrepreneurship, particularly for platforms which need to balance marketplace interdependence as they transition from early traction to activating network effects. Premature scaling is a common cause of failure so it is vital to understand how firms navigate strategic decision-making during this "adolescence” period. Through an inductive multiple-case study of eight two-sided platform ventures, we develop a framework explaining how founders sequence and pace interdependent decisions across domains to enable consistent, high-quality marketplace interactions. We contribute to the platform literature by showing sequencing is contingent on marketplace characteristics, which highlights that network effects must be deliberately designed before scaling. Additionally, we contribute to entrepreneurial strategy research by showing how ventures structure decisions as they move from initial traction toward scalability."
date: 2026-07-01
venue: 'Strategic Management Journal'
slidesurl: 
paperurl: 'https://timothyott.github.io/files/Ott-Ozcan-WP.pdf'
bibtexurl: 
citation: 'Ott, T & P. Ozcan. “Beyond the Chicken and Egg: How entrepreneurs prepare to jumpstart network effects to scale up platforms.” Under review (second round) at Strategic Management Journal. (42 pages)'
---
Scaling is a critical challenge in entrepreneurship, particularly for platforms which need to balance marketplace interdependence as they transition from early traction to activating network effects. Premature scaling is a common cause of failure so it is vital to understand how firms navigate strategic decision-making during this "adolescence” period. Through an inductive multiple-case study of eight two-sided platform ventures, we develop a framework explaining how founders sequence and pace interdependent decisions across domains to enable consistent, high-quality marketplace interactions. We contribute to the platform literature by showing sequencing is contingent on marketplace characteristics, which highlights that network effects must be deliberately designed before scaling. Additionally, we contribute to entrepreneurial strategy research by showing how ventures structure decisions as they move from initial traction toward scalability.
